Deep learning is a subset of machine learning-driven by multi-layered neural networks whose design is inspired by the structure of the human brain.

Unlike the explicitly defined mathematical logic of traditional machine learning algorithms, the artificial neural networks of deep learning models comprise many interconnected layers of “neurons” that each perform a mathematical operation. By using machine learning to adjust the strength of the connections between individual neurons in adjacent layers.

Deep learning models are most commonly trained through supervised learning on labeled data to perform regression and classification tasks. But because large-scale neural networks usually require a massive amount of training data to reach optimal performance, the cost and labor of acquiring sufficiently large datasets of annotated training examples can be prohibitive. This has led to development of techniques to replicate supervised learning tasks using _unlabeled_ data (self-supervised learning).

### how deep learning works
as explained before the deep learning consists of multiple layers of neurons connected together each acting as an individual machine learning model by taking the output of the last layer as the input and multiplying it by a weight and applying an activation function to it. 

this process was inspired by the human brains neural circuits, whose functioning is driven by the complex transmission of chemical and electrical signals across distributed networks of nerve cells (neurons).